# Tableau-Projects
Story-Plot: I’m an analyst in a superstore company. My boss has given me this Sample-Superstore dataset and asked me to do Sales Analysis to determine, regional performances, Segment and category relation to sales and profit. This will help to derive areas of improvement and resource management.
1.	First and foremost, question after looking at the data, what are the total orders by states in each region?. As we can see, Rank, state name and then number of records by state are shown on the map setting. California is at topmost with 2001 sales orders, then comes 2. New York, 3. Texas, 4. Philadelphia, 5. Washington,6. Illinois, 7. Ohio, 8. Florida, 9. Arizona and 10. Virginia are among top ten states by sales.   
2.	 I made a set named “Top ten states by sales” based on the above data. In my 2nd viz, I depicted top ten States by sales with profit or loss per unit on a Treemap to show all labels. Here, we have Top ten State by sales, Total Sales, Total Profit and profit per unit in the same order. As per the visual data, Texas, Illinois, Philadelphia, Ohio and Florida are facing loss. Though Texas is 3rd by sales, they’re having loss per unit by 14%.
  
3.	Next question comes, What are the segments these top ten states having most sales in their respective regions? Seeing the data viz, you get an idea that consumer segment is undoubtedly ruling at the top except in Florida where Home Office has highest sales. If you see carefully, total sales in consumer segment is more compared to corporate segment in FL and VA but the corporate segment is having better sales_quantity ratio percentage in corporate segment. Similarly, there’s little difference in total sales and  sales_quantity ratio percentage in different segments in IL, MI,NY,TX, and WA.
4.	Now, curiosity takes me to see sales by segment in southern region  states where I found that Consumer Segment is ruling again except in Alabama and Florida. In other words, Consumer segment is almost doing 75% of the business in the country.
5.	Why not, let’s see segment distribution of Sales, quantity, profit and Discount in each region. As stacked bar is speaking for itself, Consumer segment is flourishing in all four measures in four regions with an exception of Profit measure in the Central region.
6.	Okay, so what are the chances of technology category to affect profitability in different segment if we focus on it region wise. In the technology category, Consumer segment is 1st while corporate is making to 2nd position.
7.	Now, we’ve one core info that Consumer segment is ruling. Let’s consider the profit per unit in top six states in different Segment & Category. I’ve taken top states by sales but filtered it to only top six states. Here again, Consumer segment is ahead with more interest in technology and office supplies category.
8.	Lastly, Profit & Loss frequency by month of order date in Consumer segment. As it’s clear from the viz, profit was on its high in December 2016 in Consumer Segment.
----------------------------
Summary & Observations:
----------------------------
I’m analyzing Sample superstore dataset. My objective is to do Sales and profit Analysis to determine, Segment and category wise regional performances that will help to derive areas of improvement and resource management for a superstore company. Though Texas is 3rd by sales, they’re having a loss of $25,729 , so more effort needs to be put into Texas’s performance. Most sales revenue is coming from the consumer segment except for Florida, few states have more revenue from consumer sales, but revenue generated per unit is more from corporate sales. Consumer segment is almost doing more than 50% of the business in the country. Consumer segment is flourishing in all four measures in four regions with an exception of Profit measure in the Central region. Region wise profits in the technology category tells us that consumer segment is 1st while corporate is making to 2nd position. So, category is not playing much role in changing the general observation that consumer is most profitable and other segments need more attention . Also, the office supplies sales for home office segment are very low for most states and an area to work on. Clearly, we see that the fourth quarter has the most sales every year, while on an average 38% of the yearly sales happens in the fourth quarter. As visible, least sales occur in the first quarter and that is something to focus on. Finally, Profit & Loss frequency by month of order date depicts that the profit isn’t steady and is varying hugely every month. So, the accounting processes need to be improved for better representation.
